DAY 6 - MACHINE LEARNING BASICS

What is Machine Learning?

Machine Learning (ML) is a branch of Artificial Intelligence that enables computers to learn patterns from data and make predictions without being explicitly programmed for every task.

What is Scikit-learn?

Scikit-learn is one of the most popular Machine Learning libraries in Python. It provides simple and efficient tools for data analysis, model training, prediction, and evaluation.

Installation:

pip install scikit-learn

What is a Model?

A Machine Learning model is a mathematical representation that learns relationships between input data and output data. After training, the model can make predictions on new data.

What is Training?

Training is the process of teaching a model using historical data. During training, the model identifies patterns and relationships in the dataset.

What is Linear Regression?

Linear Regression is a supervised Machine Learning algorithm used to predict continuous values. It finds the best-fit straight line between input and output variables.

Example:
House Area -> House Price

As the area increases, the house price generally increases. Linear Regression learns this relationship and predicts prices for new house areas.

Important Functions:

1. model = LinearRegression()
   Creates a Linear Regression model.

2. model.fit(X, y)
   Trains the model using input data (X) and output data (y).

3. model.predict()
   Predicts output values for new inputs.

House Price Predictor:

In this project, house area is used as input and house price is used as output. The model is trained using sample data and then predicts the price of a house based on the area entered by the user.

Advantages of Machine Learning:

- Automates predictions and decision-making.
- Learns patterns from data.
- Improves accuracy in many applications.
- Used in real-world systems like recommendations, fraud detection, and forecasting.

Applications of Machine Learning:

- House Price Prediction
- Weather Forecasting
- Stock Market Analysis
- Recommendation Systems
- Face Recognition
- Medical Diagnosis
- Spam Email Detection

Conclusion:

Machine Learning allows computers to learn from data and make intelligent predictions. Scikit-learn makes it easy to build and train Machine Learning models in Python. In Day 6, a Linear Regression model was trained and used to build a House Price Predictor.